What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

a .git file is added to the directory that is used to keep tracjk of the changes that are made to the files in the directory.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is the middle man between the repository and the working directory. It is used a location to put the files that you would
like to commit so they can all be committed at the same time. 

it gives you a nice level of control over what files are committed once a commit is done.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change? That is easy. The staging area can be used to veiw the changes in the files vs the logical directory. You can confirm if the changes warrant a commit.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? how would branches help?

Branches would make it easier for me when i wanted to test some new functionality in my code base but do not want it added to the master branch. Branches creates a completely sepearate code base that you can use as your playground.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

I makes it easier to see how the code bases deviate from each other. It is good to be able to see where one branch seperates from the others.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do? 

Merging two branches together pulls together the changes made on 2 seperate branches and puts them together. the diagram was set up to show the difference between the two banches and how they will be pulled together.

what are the pros and cons of Gits automatic merging vs always doing merges manually?

manual merging makes sure that the correct code is merged into the new branch. However, it can be time consuming.

Automatic merging makes it easier to merge two branches as long as there is not any conflicts. if there is a conflict you will have to handle it manually.